Democracy is Evil

Democracy is a form of government. I posit that a form of government is evil if either:
1. its theoretical implementation implies an evil government
or
2. its historic actual implementations have largely been evil.

A government is the group of people who rule a country. I posit that any given government is evil if:
1. it causes or promotes evil among its citizens (i.e. citizens of the government themselves become evil because of their government's influence)
or
2. it inflicts evil upon its citizens directly
or
3. it inflicts evil upon its neighboring governments

Therefore, I need only show that one point from both lists is true, to show that democracy is evil. However, the case against democracy is so strong that I will endeavor to show that all points in each list is true of democracy.

"Democracy" literally means "rule of the people." Because of the logistical complications of direct democracy, representative democracy is generally what is meant when people say "democracy," so that is what I will discuss, but most if not all of the arguments that follow apply to either form.

The theoretical implemention of democracy is where regular elections are held, in which the citizenry elect representatives who run the country. Therefore the government in a theoretical democracy is composed entirely of officials who are elected (with the possible exception for the offices that are appointed by the representatives). There are many variations on this central theme, adding in features like a balance of powers, separate branches, etc. However, this core feature is essential to democracy and represents the idea in its simplest form. If you need a succint image to understand what a democracy is, the "spoils system" and "elections" should suffice.

What about this theoretical governemnt implies evil?

1. it necessarily causes and promotes evil among its citizens by inflaming the pride and envy of its citizenry, by tempting its citizenry to greed, by creating excuses for its citizen's gluttony, and by fostering a spirit of wrath in the losing factions of its citizenry.

2. It will inflict evil upon its citizen directly by commiting theft, by promoting lies, and by unjust use of violence.

Negative effects among the citizens:

Pride:
That all citizens recieve an "equal" vote is inherent in the form of democracy. This political falsehood--for all men are manifestly UN-equal in nearly every way, particularly in how much their opinion on the workings of goverment should matter--will natrually elevate a false view of the importance any individual citizen has, which is almost the definition of pride.

Envy:


Greed:


Gluttony:


Wrath:
Elections have winners and losers. Losers naturally feel angry. Anger can easily manifest as wrath. Therefore Elections foster a spirit of wrath.

Direct evil to the citizens:

Theft:
Because elected representatives have no guarantee of remaining in office for long, they have a structural incentive to steal from their citizens and enrich themselves while they have the opportunity to do so. That few would state it so plainly does not change the fact that a democracy implies a spoils system, and the spoils are stolen from the citizens, by the government.

Lies:


Violence:

==

However, implementations of the theoretical template for democracy are not long for this world, and are soon replaced by systems which merely masquerade as a democracy, such as is present in the United States of America. That is to say, not only are "true democracies" theoretically evil, but also "false democracies" are evil in theory.

False democracies are characterized by a divorce of the formal levers of goverment power and the actual levers of government power. If the elected representatives are the goverment of a true democracy, then the permament "civil service" is the goverment of a false democracy. For any unfamiliar with the concept that modern "democracies" might be democracies in name only, I suggest reading a little moldbug.

What about the idea of a false democracy implies that any actual implementation of it must be evil?

1. it necessarily causes and promotes much the same sorts of evil among its citizens as a true democracy, however the mechanism for each is distinct.

2. It will inflict evil upon its citizens by promoting lies, unjust use of violence, and commiting theft. (ordered by general magnitude of effect)

3. It will be inclined to inflict evil up on its neighboring goverments primarily by the instigation of unjust wars, and secondarily by undermining the principles of legitimacy of its neighbors.

So, basically, false democracies are like true democracies, but worse, because they can survive much longer and grow much bigger.
