NOTES:
-double the rewards for jobs
-bandit job means you're not attacked and you can move 2 spaces per turn.
-  update bandit combat to be less all or nothing?
-tweak bandit attack defense to be 1 shot killable by wizard and 3 shot killable by knight. and wizard to be 2 shot killable by bandit and knight to be many shot killable
-remove food, it's boring
-redo map + the way jobs are spawned

Premise:
You are a Caravan Guard. There are various cities, and paths connecting them. Go make money, fight bandits, etc.

Basic Play:
On your turn, you either move location, accept a job, hire a hand, visit the market, or explore.
  In a city:
    all of your characters are healed to full HP
    you can accept a job, or hire a hand ($10), or visit the market
  On the road:
    You can move or explore
      bonus actions are to fight bandits

Winning:
  A player wins when he can retire in peace. You must retire in the city you started at. Buying a home to retire costs $500.

Jobs:
  There are 6 cities. At the start of every round, a d6 is rolled. Whichever city the result maps to has a chance of generating a job. The odds of generating a job are based on how many players are in the game. (lower odds for fewer players, higher odds for more players) The d6 is rolled again, and either a job is generated, nothing happens, or a 6 is rolled, indicating that a hired hand appears in the city.
  Every city starts with two jobs.
  A job is to escort a caravan from one city to another. The job will have a payout associated with success, an xp reward, and a danger level which determines how likely you will be to encounter any bandits.
  Once accepting a job, no new jobs can be accepted, nor any other city but the destination entered.
  A job is failed if the main character dies.
    If the caravan is robbed (by another player), then the job can be completed for 50% value only.

Player party:
  Each player starts with a single character in their party.
  Hiring a hand will add a character to your party.
  When characters defeat bandits, they gain xp to level up and become better at fighting/get better powers. Each character gets 1 XP for winning combat, and 1 XP for finishing a job.

Death:
  When your character dies, the job is failed. All items owned are lost. You respawn in your home city. You lose 3 XP on each character.
  When your party members die, they just disappear, and any items they had are lost. Any explore tokens they had must be removed from the board.

Exploring:
  Any wilderness space can be explored as a player's main action, which prevents them from being ambushed there by bandits in the future. The player places a explore token to mark the space. Each player has a limited number of explore tokens (6). Tokens can be gained from new characters. Exploring also results in you drawing an item if you roll a 6 on a d6.

Combat:
  Each time you move through the wilderness, there is a chance of encountering bandits, unless you have explored that space. This chance is determined by the job. One skull = 1/6 chance of encountering bandits.
  Bandits parties become stronger based on the number of game rounds that have occured.
  When bandits are defeated, you have a chance to gain an item.
  Before combat, choose your turn order.
  Once combat is begun, first, flip a coin to see which side attacks first.
  side A's first character attacks side B's first character, then side B's first character attacks side A's first character. Then side A's second attacks B's 2nd, and so on. The turn order wraps around back to the first in order. For bandits, there is only 1 character.
  To attack: roll a d6. if the result is greater than the Defense of the opponent, the attack hits. Damage is determined by the character who is attacking. A roll of a '6' will always hit, regardless of defense score, but can be foiled by powers. Move the hp peg on receiving damage.
  Many powers can be used in combat. When a power is used, regardless of if it is successful, the used box on the character sheet should be covered with a token. Tokens are cleared when entering a city.

Items:
  Each character can have a weapon and an armor item. The item shop is composed of the top 3 item cards (face up) from the item deck. These items can be purchased in cities for the listed price. Items gained in travel (through bandit drops or exploration) can be sold in cities for the listed sell price. Some items have level requirements to use.


Characters:
  Player characters:
    Wizard
      HP  10 / 15 / 20
      Att 10 / 15 / 20
      Def 1  / 2  / 3
      Illusion  - retreat from a fight
      Bind      - prevent opponent from attacking one turn
      Fireball  - do double damage for one attack
    Knight
      HP  20 / 30 / 40
      Att 4  / 8  / 12
      Def 3  / 4  / 5
      Bash        - if your attack hits, stun the enemy for 2 turns
      Charge      - if your attack hits, double damage
      Sheild Wall - half damage for whole party for whole fight
    Rogue
      HP  15 / 23 / 30
      Att 8  / 12 / 17
      Def 2  / 3  / 4
      Dodge       - force an attack to miss
      Pickpocket  - reroll an item drop
      Backstab    - subtract 1 from your attack roll. If you still hit, you kill the opponent immediately.
  Hired hands: (all cost $10 to hire)
    Ranger
      HP  5  / 10 / 15
      Att 2  / 4  / 6
      Def 2  / 3  / 4
      Comes with 2 extra explore tokens
    Cleric
      HP  6  / 12 / 18
      Att 1  / 2  / 4
      Def 3  / 4  / 5
      Healing Prayer - can heal [level]d6 of HP to any character
      (Won't be in party with Warlock)
    Warlock
      HP  4  / 8  / 12
      Att 4  / 8  / 12
      Def 1  / 2  / 3
      (Won't be in party with Cleric)
    Bard
      HP  5  / 10 / 15
      Att 1  / 2  / 4
      Def 2  / 3  / 4
      Insipirational Song - allow player character to use a power they have used up.
