GOAL OF THIS DOCUMENT:
  This is a plan for the creation of a youtube series which purports to show why everyone should be a Catholic.
    - The series will start with one monster video, which lists, in overview form, a logical train that starts from the obvious observations of our senses and ends up with everyone being a Catholic. This video will contain links at each point to other, shorter videos which defend that point. It will start with a prelim about "analogical language" and attitude toward belief, and admittance of my personal biases, and an explanation of how the video works. It will feature a lot of words onscreen as if the screen were a whiteboard. My annoying voice will be the lecture.
    - each support video will lay out the case for what this point means, and why it is true. then it will attempt to forsee and answer objections.

===

Reality is divided by Potency and Act
The things of our everyday experience require some thing composed of Pure Act to keep their potential for existence actualized.
Thus, God, who is Pure Act, exists.
Pure Act is necessarily singular, because it cannot have any feature to distinguish it from any other Pure Act without having the potential to have that feature (or not have it) and violating the definition of Pure Act.
Pure Act is necessarily immaterial, because material has the potential to be in different locations, which is potentiality, which violates the definition of Pure Act.
etc for all the primary attributes of God.

1. I am real.
2. I can change.
3. Change entails some potential becoming real.
4. By 2 and 3, I must have potential.
5. By 1 and 4, I am composed of Reality and Potentiality.
6. Potentials can only be made real by some already real thing. (Because potentials are not fully real, and have no direct causal power)
7. I was not always real.
8. By 1 and 7, my existence is a potential that was made real.



Thus God is pure Act, which is unchanging, the cause of the existence of things, singular (or unique), immaterial, eternal, perfect, omnipotent, and omniscient.

3. If a thing can change, it is a mixture of potency and act.
4. 


observe reality
abstract from reality to a deeper understanding
extrapolate from that deeper understanding to the necessary unmoved mover
examine the nature of the unmoved mover to understand its qualities
Realize that the existence of the God of classical theism means that miracles are possible
    But on the other hand, the doctrine of divine concurrence tells us that since this entire natural order operates only insofar as the divine primary cause concurs with it, there is also the possibility of a supernatural order of things -- an order of things over and above the natural order, for the sake of which the latter might be suspended.  (Notice that “supernatural” here has a technical meaning that is unrelated to the sorts of things popular usage of the word suggests.  It has nothing to do with vampires, werewolves, zombies, and the like -- which, if they existed, would be part of the “natural” order in the relevant sense, rather than supernatural.) Now both of these ideas -- that some things are impossible given just the natural order of secondary causes, but that the divine primary cause might act in a supernatural way -- entail the possibility of miracles.
Use our deeper understanding of reality to analyze the human condition and conclude on the existence and immoratality of the soul, together with the possibility of resurrection
    The Scholastic argues that the human soul is to be conceived of as the substantial form of the living human being, related to the body as form to matter.  The intellectual and volitional powers of the soul are, it is argued, essentially immaterial, operating without direct dependence on any bodily organ.  This in turn leads to the conclusion that the human soul is naturally immortal.  For since the intellect and will do not directly depend on the body when a human being is alive, they do not perish with the death of the body.  Hence the human soul, reduced to its intellectual and volitional powers, carries on after the loss of our corporeal functions. https://www.pdcnet.org/collection/show?id=acpq_2013_0087_0001_0001_0032&file_type=pdf
Analyze human psychology of passions vs will to see that most humans would need special revelation to know and follow God
"The only way to know some revelation was true, is if it were certified with a miracle that could only come from God"
Compare the religions of the world, and see that the only three that fit with what we have said are I,J,C and that I < J < C because of miracles
  here evidence of Jesus from Case for Christ or WLCraig et al is useful
Now observe that there are very many christian denominations and realize that we should analyze which is true
  Historical/early Christian worship, Authority, anti-solas, sexual morality, etc
Conclude that everyone should be a Catholic because it is true


1. In the world, some things are changing.
2. Change is when some potential state becomes real.
3. Potential states can only be made real by the action of some already real thing.
4. It is not possible for a thing to be both potentially some way, and simeltaneously actually that same way.
5. By 3 and 4, it is impossible for a thing to change itself.
6. By 1 and 5, for any given thing that is changing, there must be some other thing causing that change.
7. 


SCRIPT:

preface
  Howdy, If you want to skip right to the outline, click here.
    POINT BELOW
  If you don't know what I'm talking about, just keep watching. The point of this video is to give an outline of the rational chain that leads, step by step, to the conclusion that every person should become a Catholic. I start with the most uncontroversial premise I can imagine, but at each point along the way the odds of you disagreeing, or not understanding go up. So, each link in this chain has an attendant shorter clip where I explain what the point means, why I think it's true, and respond to common objections. Those videos are where the meat of the argumentation and support for my reasoning will lie. This video is just the outline. If you understand and agree with each statement, they lead logically to the conclusion that the Catholic Church is what she claims she is--the One True Bride of Christ.
    ANIMATE BASIC LOGICAL CHAIN WHILE IM TALKING
  Now, am I a genius? No. Am I even a trained philosopher, or logician? No. Might I be wrong? Yes. Of course, I don't think I'm wrong, but my own nature as a finite human being, along with my memories of having been wrong before, leads me to the conclusion that it is at least *possible* that I am wrong. A man I admire once advised me to "hold my beliefs loosely" to allow new ones in and see if they fit. While I don't always live up to that standard, I do at least try, and so I would ask the same thing of you. You may be an atheist, with a strong conviction that religion is nothing more than ridiculous superstition. You may be a born-again young-earth creationist, who knows in his heart of hearts that the literal interpretation of the Bible is the only Truth. You may have some eastern philosophy that I have no understanding of. Fine. Maybe you're right. Maybe I'm wrong. But it might go the other way as well. Think to yourself for a moment how deeply ingrained your current beliefs are, and ask yourself if it is even possible for you to consider evidence which challenges them? Try to hold your beliefs loosely, so that the truth can make itself known to you.
  When you're watching this outline, I suggest, pausing it after every numbered point that I make, and thinking about it for a second or two. If it seems obviously false, then click into the defense video, where hopefully I can explain it better. If it seems true, though, press play, and see where the next step leads you.
  Lets' begin.

OUTLINE:

1. We observe that things change.
2. Change entails some potential being actualized.
3. Every change is caused by the simultaneous activity of some other actual thing.
==
4. If this other actual thing is changing, then it too requires the simultaneous activity of some other actual thing.
5. In a chain of per se causes, there would be no causal power at all unless there were some first cause of the chain.
6. Every change entails a chain of per se causes.
7. Every change entails that there be some first cause at the head of the chain of per se causes.
8. Because of 4, this first cause must be itself unchanging.
9. Thus, every change entails that there be an unchanging changer. Call this God.
==
  Now that we've gotten to something that we are calling "God," even if that thing is ill-defined and does not seem much like what most people think God is, it would be a good time to discuss our use of language in relation to God. 
  UNIVOCAL - using words in exactly the same way. I "hit" you, you "hit" me. "Hit" is being used in the same exact sense here.
  EQUIVOCAL - using words in totally different ways. A "bat" flies away. I swing the baseball "bat." "Bat" is being used in totally different senses here.
  ANALOGICAL - using words in similar ways. This cheeseburger is good. This movie is good. You are a good person. "Good" is being used in a similar, but not exactly the same, sense here.
  When we talk about God, we can only really use analogical language, because he is so fundamentally different from our ordinary everyday experience. So when we say God is Good, we do not, and cannot, mean he is Good in exactly the same way that you or I might be Good. Keeping that in mind, let's analyze the attributes of God.
==
10. Since change entails some potential (#2) and God is unchanging (#9), God must have no potential.
11. But Potential and Act are the two halves of reality, so if God has no potential, God must be pure Act.
12. The things of our experience come into, and go out of existence, meaning they have the potential for existence.
13. When things exist, this potential for existence is actualized.
14. But the actualization of potential is what change is, and God is the first cause of all change.
15. So God is the first cause of the existence of all things.
16. There could be more than one thing of pure Act only if there were some differentiating feature that one had and another lacked.
17. Having such a differentiating feature would entail having some unactualized potential.
18. Pure Act cannot have an unactualized potential, by definition.
19. So there must be only one thing of pure Act.
20. Material things always have the potential to change location.
21. By 10 and 20, God is immaterial.
22. Pure Act does not have its potential for existence actualized, because it would then have potential and not be pure Act.
23. So pure Act exists necessarily, intrinsically to its nature.
24. If something exists necessarily, it cannot not exist, which means it always has and always will exist, which means it exists eternally.
25. So God is eternal.
26. Something is perfect if there is no part of its nature it fails to fulfill.
27. A thing fails to fulfill part of its nature if it has some unactualized potential which it should actualize.
28. Something is perfect if there is no unactualized potential which it should actualize.
29. By 10 and 28, God is perfect.
30. Every change that could occur, would necessarily have God as its first cause.
31. To be able to cause any possible change is what is meant by omnipotence.
32. So God is omnipotent.
33. No cause can actualize what it does not actually have (immanently or formally)
34. Since, God actualizes all things, he must have all things "inside" himself in some way.
35. Since God is immaterial, the way that he has all things inside himself is like knowledge.
36. Thus, God knows all things.
37. Thus God is pure Act, which is unchanging, the cause of the existence of things, singular (or unique), immaterial, eternal, perfect, omnipotent, and omniscient.
==
38. Since God exists, miracles are metaphysically possible.
39. Minds are immaterial.
40. Humans have minds.
41. Material reality cannot create immaterial reality.
42. Thus, God must, by special act, join minds to bodies to form each human.
43. Thus God cares about humans to some special degree.
44. Immaterial beings can exist without a body.
45. The immaterial human mind can continue to exist after physical, bodily death.
46. Resurrection by supernatural miracle could be acheived by rejoining an immaterial human mind to its body.
47. This argument is long, convoluted, and not immediately obvious to the great mass of humanity.
48. Some special revelation from God would make God's nature clearer, and more well known to humanity.
49. The only way to certify that special revelation came from God, and not a con man, would be through use of miracles that only God could accomplish, such as resurrection.
50. Thus, we should expect that there would be a true religion, which understands God to have the attributes from 37, holds that resurrection of the body is possible, and has its revelation certified through miracles.
51. Judiasm, Islam, and Christianity are the only world religions that fit.
52. Islam's main miracle attestation is the Quran itself, which is not obviously actually only something doable by God.
53. Judiasm does not attest to any miracles that Christianity does not accept, so if there is a credible miracle in Christianity that is not in Judiasm, then Christianity is true, and vice versa.
54. The Resurrection of Jesus Christ is historically credible.
55. Thus Christianity is more "certified" by God than any other religion.
==
56. There are many denominations of Christianity.
57. All Christians agree that the apostles had a true Church.
