Definition: Act - the actual way a thing exists. What is real, present and in being. I, as I stand before you, am in Act, that is, I exist.
Definition: Potency - the potential ways of being intrinsic to a thing. What is capable of becoming real, capable of actually existing. Humans (generally) have the potency for speech, whereas they do not have the potency for unassisted flight.
Definition: Change is when a potency is actualized.

Assumption: Potency and Act divide being in such a way that whatever is, is either pure act, or of necessity it is composed of potency and act as primary and intrinsic principles.

I have the potential to exist.
This potential is being actualized right now.
Only something already actual can actualize potential.
Thus, something already actual is actualizing my potential for existence.
This thing either has the potential to exist, or is purely actual (and thus has no potentials).
If it has the potential to exist, that potential must be being actualized concurrently, by some third thing.
Thus, there is a regress of things which actualize the potential for existence of other things (actualizers), all at the same moment.
This regress of actualizers is a hierarchical series.
A hierarchical series cannot regress to infinity, but must terminate.
The only thing which could in principle terminate this regress is something which has no potential for existence which needs to be actualized.
Only something that is purely actual, with no potency whatsoever, could not have a potential for existence.
Thus, this regress of actualizers must terminate in a purely actual being.
God is the the purely actual being.

Assumption: I have the potential to exist.
Assumption: I actually exist.
Conclusion: My potential to exist is being actualized right now.
Assumption: Only some already actual thing can actualize potential.
Conclusion: Some already actual thing is actualizing my potential for existence.
Assumption: God is purely actual.
Conclusion: If this already actual thing is purely actual, then God exists.
Conclusion: If this thing has the the potential to exist, then some already actual third thing must be concurrently actualizing its potential for existence.
Conclusion: This makes a series of things which actualize the potential for existence of other things, all at the same moment.
Assumption: In a hierarchical series of causes, each member is dependent on its parent for its causal power.
Conclusion: This series of actualizers is a hierarchical series.
Assumption: A hierarchical series cannot regress to infinity, but must terminate.
Conclusion: This series of actualizers must terminate.
Assumption: The only thing which could in principle terminate this series is something which has no potential for existence which needs to be actualized.
Conclusion: This series of actualizers must terminate in something which has no potential for existence that needs to be actualized.
Assumption: Only something that is purely actual, with no potency whatsoever, could have no potential for existence.
Conclusion: This series of actualizers must terminate in a purely actual thing.
Conclusion: A purely actual thing exists.
Assumption: God is purely actual.
Conclusion: God exists.


Definition of God: pure act.

My existence entails something actualizing my potential for existence.
This actualizer must be either purely actual, or a mixture of potency and act.
If it is purely actual, God exists.
If it is a mixture of potency and act, there is a chain of actualizers.
This chain is hierarchical in nature, and thus must terminate.
Only pure act could in principle terminate this chain.
Thus, pure act exists, and this is God.


key concepts:
Potency and Act
hierarchical vs linear causal serieses

words to define:
potential
actual
actualizer
hierarchical series
God
