John 13:34 - Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another.
Luke 14:26 - If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children, his brothers and sisters--yes, even his own life--he cannot be my disciple.

Google "Jesus contradictions" and you will see that in between the piles of hateful anti-Christian rhetoric, there are many actual biblical quotes which seem to contradict each other.

So, when Jesus seems to contradict himself, the easiest explanation is that he's insane. Or that the whole creed is nonsense, so of course it contradicts itself.

However, if you have good reason to believe that he is not insane, and that the creed is not nonsense, then you need a way to resolve the apparent contradiction.

I have found, that in these places of contradiction, the easiest way to resolve it is to see the words through the context of tension and balance.

For example, Christians believe in Justice, that God is a Just God, and that he judges truly, fairly, and knows what each man deserves. We believe Justice is a virtue, and a key part of who God is.
But.
Christians also believe in Mercy, that God is a Merciful God, and that he will forgive us far beyond what any many could expect. We believe Mercy is a virtue, and a key part of who God is.

So what gives? Is God Mercifu? or is he Just?

The obvious answer is that he is both. Both are good. But both virtues balance each other.
If God were only the God of Justice, then we could have no hope, for we all deserve nothing more than eternal damnation.
If God were only the God of Mercy, then we could have no reason to hate sin, for God will fix everything and there will be no consequences.

But, because God is the God of both Justice AND Mercy, we see that Christians have both reason to hope in our future salvation, and reason to hate and avoid sin and God's wrath.

Either of these virtues alone would cause chaos, and would warp itself into a vice.

Both of these virtues together act in harmony and balance each other out.

This is the most common way for a religious person to err. He will focus on one virtue to the exclusion of all others, turning that virtue into a vice.

Thus, the concept of balance in the Christian life is key to resolving apparent contradictions in our faith, as well as growing further in our faith.
