1. God loves everyone equally.

This seems trivially false, in the same way that it is impossible for God to do evil. The argument supporting this claim seems to be: "Jesus died to save us all from our sins, therefore he loves us all equally." Correct me if this is a strawman, but to me it sounds a bit like claiming that 1 + 1 = 3 because triangles have 3 sides. While it is true that triangles have three sides, I don't see how that's connected to the principle of addition, nor how it could even be logically possible that God love us all equally. Due to the combined difference of each of our individual natures and nurtures, it would seem a trivial statement that no two humans are exactly equal in any way. And from what little I know of love, it seems to me that perfect love is perfectly personalized, as love is a part of a relationship. In my experience, no two relationships are the same, specifically because no two people are the same. Therefore, if love must be personalized, and no two persons are the same (that is the definition of equal) it follows that God cannot love all of us equally.
I think that when people say "God loves us all equally," they often mean something weaker, and much more defensible. If they mean that God loves us all far more than we deserve, then that is true. If they mean even that God loves us more than we can imagine, well that I am not sure about, but am ready to give the benefit of the doubt. But, by using the fact of Jesus' death as proof, all I can see that could be truly claimed is that God loved the combination of all humans since Jesus' time enough to consider it joy to die for them. But I can see no reason why Jesus should not have died say, 90% for Peter alone, and the remaining 10% of his motivation coming from the combination of his love for all the rest of humanity. 
This fiction is along the lines of parents lying to their children that they love them all the same. Of course they do not. Parents are human, and humans are incapable of perfect love. In any case, perfect love for me meant much discipline, and perfect love for my brother meant much encouragement, and perfect love for my other brother meant much freedom. Love is an action, a verb, and it cannot be quantified. God does not love everyone equally. That is a ridiculous constraint on the nature of God. The God I know is far better than a lying parent, afraid to offend his children with the truth. The God I know loves me in a way that only He can, and loves no one in the same way as He loves me.

2. God wants us to be happy always.

This makes me laugh. I find it hard to state this in such a way that it is not a strawman. When put as bluntly as I have, most people realize the silliness of it, yet, I have often heard pastors contorting their words to imply this sentiment. Be more manly and say clearly what you mean, sir! In any case, the reason this is false is simple: I am not happy all the time. If God is all powerful, he is capable of enacting anything he wants. If God wants me to be happy, I will be happy, regardless of my opinions on the matter. Therefore, the counter example of myself is enough to disprove the axiom. But even making the axiom weaker, say, "God wants us to be happy often," and it is still ridiculous, and unsupported. God wants us to know Him. How we feel about that relationship will often lead to hope and joy, but these are categorically different things from happiness. Happiness is finding $20 in your pocket. Joy is the product of hope amidst suffering. As far as I know God does not mind us being happy, but how anyone could say that was his priority is beyond me.
I find even the weaker-still claim that "God wants us to be happy in heaven" dubious. For I know little about heaven, but this I do know: we will have bodies. And if we have bodies, I think it safe to say, that those bodies will be capable of feeling pain. I am never happy when I stub my toe, though a throbbing appendage is never enough to affect my joy. Therefore, unless heaven really is a padded room where even physical pain is impossible, I do not think heaven will be pure happiness all the time. Pure joy, maybe, but joy in happiness is the weakest form of joy I know.

3. Just trust in God and everything will be alright.

